---
title: "Symmetries of F-cohomological field theories and F-topological recursion"
coauthors: "G. Borot, G. Umer"
journal: "Commun. Math. Phys."
note: "Accepted"
year: "2025"
arxiv: "2406.06304"
category: published
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2406-06304
excerpt: "We introduce F-topological recursion and show that the descendant theory of F-CohFTs in the Givental orbit are compute by F-topological recursion."
date: 2024-06-10
---

We define F-topological recursion (F-TR) as a non-symmetric version of topological recursion, which associates a vector potential to some initial data. We describe the symmetries of the initial data for F-TR and show that, at the level of the vector potential, they include the F-Givental (non-linear) symmetries studied by Arsie, Buryak, Lorenzoni, and Rossi within the framework of F-manifolds. Additionally, we propose a spectral curve formulation of F-topological recursion.

This allows us to extend the correspondence between semisimple cohomological field theories (CohFTs) and topological recursion, as established by Dunin-Barkowski, Orantin, Shadrin, and Spitz, to the F-world. In the absence of a full reconstruction theorem à la Teleman for F-CohFTs, this demonstrates that F-TR holds for the ancestor vector potential of a given F-CohFT if and only if it holds for some F-CohFT in its F-Givental orbit. We turn this into a useful statement by showing that the correlation functions of F-topological field theories (F-CohFTs of cohomological degree 0) are governed by F-TR. We apply these results to the extended 2-spin F-CohFT. Furthermore, we exhibit a large set of linear symmetries of F-CohFTs, which do not commute with the F-Givental action. 